Daniel Pride
Relational Database Design
DanielPride@yahoo.com
Providing Custom Relational Database solutions for unique situations and 
requirements in 4D and Oracle. Certified Oracle Internet Developer, 12 Years of 
4D Development Experience
Computer Skills: (Partial) Databases: Oracle SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Oracle Forms, 
Oracle Reports, Oracle Developer 2000, Cold Fusion, Cold Fusion Server, 4th 
Dimension, 4D WebServer, 4D NetTools, 4D System7 Pack, AreaList Pro, FileMaker 
Pro, Panorama, Helix Express, Hypercard/talk. Operating Systems: Mac, Windows, 
Unix. Publishing: Quark Express, HTML 4.0, Photoshop, FreeHand, Webstar Server, 
Powerpoint, Debabilizer, MR Graphics. AppleScript:Finder Scripting, Quark 
Scripting, Excel (Scripting and Function Language), Scriptbase, Netscape, 
FaceSpan, PreFab Player. Misc Experience: Unix Shell Scripts, Apache, 
Javascript, Excel, Statview, Novell Netware, InstallerMaker, Freeman Install, 
DataDesk. 
Certifications: 
	Oracle Certified Professional	SQL and PL/SQL	Jan 25 2000
      Oracle Certified Professional PL/SQL Units 	Feb 07 2000
      Oracle Certified Professional Build Forms 1	Mar 01 2001
      Oracle Certified Professional Build Forms 2	Mar 12 2001
      Oracle Certified Professional Reports		Apr 23 2001
Development Experience: 
2003 Contract Development for Amgen Biotech Corporation
Rewrite of Immunex Corporations training database tracking system to incorporate 
data structures required by the merger of Immunex and Amgen Corporation. The 4D 
database System tracked complex training requirements by product for every 
employee to ensure regulatory compliance in drug production and provided a web 
intranet to notify employees of changes in regulatory requirements which 
required additional training. Employee intra-net records were color coded by 
compliance levels to provide easy recognition by skill requirement of compliance 
status in a completely variable (not document) based web server system with 0.25 
second response time to queries over the net. (On line Demo Available)
2002 Contract Development for E-fficient software (Pa)
Development of prototype application to categorize brain tumors during a 
research study. Application utilized 4D Draw to associate tumor location with 
database coordinates to evaluate course of treatment for several hundred 
patients with Multiple MRI records per patient, including graphic storage, 
retrieval and comparision. (Win 2000 Demo Avail).
2001-2002 Contract Development for Physician Reimbursement Systems (CO)
Custom Development of software application to analyze Medicare Billing Policy 
documents and extract valid CPT (Current Procedural Terminology) and ICD9 
(International Category of Diseases) billing pair combinations. System included 
an extensive AreaList Pro decision support user interface to assist in 
categorizing the Code Pairs and a highly developed pattern matching algorithm 
which resulted in 99.96% extraction of valid Code pairs from HTML and free form 
text documents from a variety of sources. Help Files on Line
2000 Software Development for Relevant Technologies (MA)
Authored a comprehensive field level data synchronization application for 
EquityWorks software. The data synchronization software was extensively tested, 
approved, and implemented by Anderson Consulting. Anderson used the 
synchronization system to coordinate the activities of Anderson for all Venture 
Capitol offices on a worldwide basis. EquityWorks is now the leading management 
software package for venture capitol and equity management firms. 
1999 Software Maintenance for Iroquios Gas Transmission Systems (CN)
Responsible for software maintenance on the Gas Nominations and Bid management 
software for the Iroquois Pipeline system supplying New York City from the Trans 
Canadian Pipeline. Assisted in the conversion of a 4th Dimension front end 
system to a Power builder based front end system for a Sybase backend. 
1998-1999 Contract Development for US West Internet Yellow Pages (CO) 
Rewrite of the US West Yellow Pages internet search engine in 4th Dimension as a 
local server for mobile sales. The system was written in 4th Dimension with the 
design specification of exact duplication of the US West Yellow Pages Internet 
site. Development resulted in production capability of 14 Search Engines 
representing all aspects of US West Yellow Pages in each of the 14 States 
served. Patent Pending
1997-1998 Contract Development for US West Internet Yellow Pages (CO) 
Development of server automation systems for the Internet project for all yellow 
page publications in the 14 western states. System includes automated inventory 
procedures for 40 high volume servers, targeting and retrieval of 200,000 yellow 
page display adds, and final processing of ad files from their native graphics 
production formats to Encapsulated Postscript and finally into a Gif 89 format 
for internet display. System final product is viewable under the Info Page 
buttons on the US WEST Yellow Pages Internet Site. See: US Patent 5,991,770 
Reference 
1996-1997 Software Maintenance for US West (CO) 
Debugging and Maintenance of the Yellow Page sales automation software. The 
software application (WildThing), written in 4D, integrates all functions of the 
3400 person sales force including scheduled data exchanges with the mainframe 
systems, sales ordering, sales presentation assistance etc. 
1995 Contract Development for Apple Computer Corp and Ex.Machina (CA)
Development of demonstration Applescripts for Powertalk. The project resulted in 
14 Applescripts and a FaceSpan application being included on Apple's Powertalk 
install disks. Two Powertalk Readme documents, (Powertalk Scripts and Powertalk 
Script Goodies) and the script headers include authorship credit (by Dan Pride, 
Los Gatos Ca.) 
1994 Contract Development for Apple Computer Corp (CA) 
Design and Development of a database system used in marketing Operating System 
7.5 by the evangelism department of Apple Computer. The system consisted of 
Filemaker Database with scripted links to Custom Excel Reporting Applications 
1993 Contract Development for Engage Communications (CA)
Job responsibilities involved designing and creating a Helix based Sales, 
Marketing and Technical Support Database system for satellite synch routers and 
high speed networking devices.
1990-1995 Independent Commercial Product Development 
Extended development of a multi-user departmental database product for physician 
referral, managed care and public relations. The product consists of a 23 
relation Helix Express database controlling 75 Finder, Quark, and Excel 
Applescript Applets, which in turn control 16 independent Excel Reporting 
Applications, a Quark Express print production system and a PowerPoint help 
system. Development was done in conjunction with Stamford Hospital, John Muir 
Cancer Research Foundation, and Lakeside Hospital (HCA Corp). See: Hospitals and 
Health Networks Magazine June 20 1993 Back Cover.
1992-1993 Contract Development for Business Link Communications (NYC)
Development of a fully automated multi-Linotronic output management system 
controlling multiple production systems with integrated accounting, tracking and 
delivery. The system handled all facets of the business from file receipt to 
production, graphic services billing, zip based delivery scheduling, and 
integrated real time accounting and sales management and facilitation. 
Businesslink customers included Bertlesman publishing, as well as Time, Look, 
and Life Magazines. 
1992 Contract Development for Pioneer Balloons of Kansas City (MO)
Development of a catalog production and inventory system for Pioneer Balloons of 
Kansas City. The database publishing system produces catalogs for Pioneer 
Balloons and 25 related companies. 
1991-1992 Independent Commercial Product Development 
"Build Your Own Business", a commercial software product targeted at the laser 
cartridge recharging industry in conjunction with CR Technologies of Chicago. 
1992 Contract Software Development for Michael Jesselson (NYC)
Designed and wrote software to track the Jesselson's family private collection 
of rare Books and Religious Manuscripts from the 14th 15th and 16th century.
1991 Contract Development for Stamford Hospital (CN)
Development of Payroll and Budget projection software for Stamford Hospital. The 
Multi-User database system scheduled 1200 employees in a highly complex rate 
structure including department, position, and individual factors. The system 
reduced processing time from 24 hours on an HP 9000 to a real time basis on a 
Mac 2ci. 
1991-1992 Contract Development for Bertelsmann/Doubleday Publishing (NYC) 
Designed and Developed a 35 user automated catalog production system for the 
Double Day Books (a subsidiary of Bertelsmann Marketing Corporation in New York 
City). The System produced all Catalog publications for the various Doubleday 
Book clubs. 
1989-1991 Contract Development for Bertelsmann/RCA Records (NYC)
Designed and developed a 20 user automated catalog production system for RCA 
records (a subsidiary of Bertelsmann Marketing Corporation in New York City). 
The software produced and tracked 27 catalogs (400 items per catalog) every 
three weeks for the various RCA record clubs. The system was based on a 
integration of Helix Express Relational Database and Quark Express style tags. 
The system was the first automated database publishing system ever written. 
1989 Consulting and Contract Development for Stamford Hospital (CN)
Project included the design and implementation of M.I.S. Personnel Management 
Software, Job tracking and Accountability, and other miscellaneous projects 
including phone usage database analysis. 
1989-1992 Contract Development for Alfa Cartridge Corporation (NYC)
Design and implementation of a Helix database system including all functions 
currently offered in the MYOB small business management package and including 
Product Bar Code Tracking, Pickup and Delivery Scheduling, and a variety of 
industry specific functions.
 
Education:
1970-74 Allegheny College, Meadville, Pa. 
Theoretical Economics major, Student Body President 1972-73 and 1973-74
1966-70 North Yarmouth Academy Preparatory, Yarmouth Maine.
Class Valedictorian 1970 
References and/or sample application source code provided upon request.